I can investigate a remote problem
So I was very compelled by doing the second experiments, and I wanted to take it even further -- maybe addressing an even harder problem, and it's also closer to my heart.
So I'm half Japanese and half French, and maybe you remember in 2011 there was a massive earthquake in Japan.
It was so violent that it triggered several giant waves
they are called tsunami -- and those tsunami destroyed many cities on the eastern coast of Japan.
More than 14,000 people died in an instant.
Also, it damaged the nuclear power plant of Fukushima, the nuclear power plant just by the water.
And today, I read the reports and an average of 300 tons are leaking from the nuclear power plant into the Pacific Ocean.
And today the whole Pacific Ocean has traces of contamination of cesium-137.
But if you look at the map, it can look like most of the radioactivity has been washed away from the Japanese coast, and most of it is now -- it looks like it's safe, it's blue.
Well, reality is a bit more complicated than this.
So I've been going to Fukushima every year since the accident, and I measure independently and with other scientists, on land, in the river -- and this time we wanted to take the kids.
So of course we didn't take the kids, the parents wouldn't allow that to happen.
Laughter.
But every night we would report to Mission Control -- different masks they're wearing.
It could look like they didn't take the work seriously, but they really did because they're going to have to live with radioactivity their whole life.
And so what we did with them is that we'd discuss the data we collected that day, and talk about where we should be going next -- strategy, itinerary, etc... And to do this, we built a very rough topographical map of the region around the nuclear power plant.
And so we built the elevation map, we sprinkled pigments to represent real-time data for radioactivity, and we sprayed water to simulate the rainfall.
And with this we could see that the radioactive dust was washing from the top of the mountain into the river system, and leaking into the ocean.
So it was a rough estimate.
But with this in mind, we organized this expedition, which was the closest civilians have been to the nuclear power plant.
We are sailing 1.5 kilometers away from the nuclear power plant, and with the help of the local fisherman, we are collecting sediment from the seabed with a custom sediment sampler we've invented and built.
We pack the sediment into small bags, we then dispatch them to hundreds of small bags that we send to different universities, and we produce the map of the seabed radioactivity, especially in estuaries where the fish will reproduce, and I will hope that we will have improved the safety of the local fishermen and of your favorite sushi.
